Had a three hour hearing this morning
with Immigration New Zealand,
as has been the case in the past.
This is the opportunity for our committee
to ask you follow up questions in relation to our answers
that we received this morning.
So, uh, just as we always say,
and I know officials, you heard this this morning,
if there's any one that needs to speak to any questions, um,
so wait till you're at the desk before you start talking and
otherwise, um, ministers, we usually have a very,
very brief time for opening remarks if you have them.
Otherwise, we'll then get into
Questions. Oh, I'll
just take a minute. One minute. Beautiful.
Um, it's important, important thanks to say.
Um, firstly, uh, I just want to acknowledge Alison McDonald,
who is, uh, leaving us soon
and the extraordinary work she's done, uh,
and the great working relationship we've had, uh,
over the last couple of years.
And we'll be sad to see her going.
So I wanted to say that, uh,
and then just look, just briefly, uh, uh, you've heard me,
I've been in front of committee
talking about our work program.
I'm very proud of what we've done.
We've done everything we said we would, um, looking forward
to some of the changes, uh, coming
to the skilled migrant category
and pathways to residents later this year.
Uh, we've put a lot of visas in place, uh, with the, uh,
a couple of, uh, key drivers being
to make sure we are reuniting families
and that we are, uh, helping to build a resilient
and productive economy to make sure
we get the skills that we need.
And I'm particularly proud of, uh, you know, some of the,
uh, the challenges
that we faced when we came into government,
and the fact that we have, uh, managed to, uh, turn that
around in the last couple of years with the help of Allison.
Uh, but particularly, uh, at this point in time, we've now,
as I've moved into a different phase, uh, we have, uh,
you know, there's a number of things you uncover, uh,
during your time as minister and,
and, uh, I, the work we're moving into now,
and you've seen some of the pre, uh,
announcements we've made about the
upcoming bill, which you'll be looking at.
Thank you. And that is to make sure
that the immigration system is working for New Zealanders.
Mm. Uh, and, you know, we've done all the good things
and now it's time to move into, uh, into a, a phase
of making sure that we are not being taken, taken advantage
of, that we are in line with our, uh, you know,
comparator countries to make sure
that our settings are similar, uh,
and, you know, making sure that we are cracking down on, uh,
you know, uh, employers
or people who are here on visas who are not, uh, abiding
by the terms and conditions of their visa, uh, to make sure
that, that, that, that they are doing that.
And so there's a number of things that are coming, uh, some
of the things we've already done through the fizzy bill.
Uh, and we'll continue in that vein.
So with that, I'm happy to answer any
of your questions. Brilliant.
Thank you very much. We have the first question from
Ricardo, then Vanessa then fell. So we'll move in
That order. Thank you. Minister, you
mentioned the upcoming bill
and your opening remarks.
Why did you claim there were tens
of thousands more overstayers than initially suspected
to justify this bill when Allison
briefly in the earlier hearing told us,
that is not factually correct?
Yeah, look, I, I've already, uh, I think I've gone back
to the media and and apologized for that.
It was on the tiles, and I, I just misspoke.
I meant to say thousands. I mean, when we, uh, our,
our initial view was that there may have been about 12
to 13 around that.
Uh, and when we, when it came back that it was 20,
it was quite a big jump.
Um, so it was just a, a misspoke in my part.
And I've already cleared that up with the media. It's
Good supplementary just relating to, I guess,
strategic intentions then.
Um, are you at all intending
or planning to explore a blanket extension of visas
for people who may not be able to go back
to the home countries, um, due
to the war unraveling in the Middle East in the same way
that that blanket extension habit for Ukrainians,
But it's, it's good that you've raised that, um,
because there is a, a process we went through with Ukraine
and it's actually a very similar
process we're going through at the moment.
Uh, the, as the situation unfolds at the moment,
we're keeping a very close eye on it.
Uh, and, you know, there are lots of things to consider
and lots of information together.
So until yesterday, I didn't know
or have on me the number of, uh, people
who are here on temporary visas that hold you, uh,
Iranian passports, for example.
Uh, I'm still quite getting information out
of Immigration New Zealand on which other, uh,
countries might be affected and other people as well.
Um, that's a, a moving feast, if you like.
'cause airports are closing, people can't get back.
Uh, and that's changing from day to day.
So the very best thing we can do right now,
while we're still in a phase of gathering information, is
to say to anyone who is affected, uh, as we did
with Ukraine in the first two weeks, we will prioritize you.
I've already requested today that we set up a, a desk
or a team that is just dealing with this, these instances
come to Immigration New Zealand.
We'll deal with you on a case by case basis
until we have a much better understanding of the situation.
Exactly the same as we did in Ukraine, where
after two weeks we went, actually, now is time for this.
At that time, we used different powers.
We used the COVID powers that we,
that are not in place anymore.
We, we, but however, we do have other powers
that we can now use to, to do that.
Uh, so we will just take advice,
we'll monitor the situation.
The other thing to note is I, it's still, um,
we're still unsure as to how many
of those Ukrainian visa holders, for example, uh, sorry,
Iranian, uh, are actually living in Ira Iran.
Many of them are living in other countries.
So while they, well, we can see they hold an Iranian
passport, they may live elsewhere.
So we are still getting the numbers and the scale of it,
but I will continue to monitor it
and those pathways will still be open once we have better
information and, and as the situation evolves.
Right. Thank you. Thank you.
But we have a supplementary from Phil on this one.
So, um, putting aside the issue of, um,
Iranian passport holders who might be in New Zealand now,
uh, there is, I think every likelihood
that we'll see significant movements
of people in the Middle East in response to the war.
What thought have you given to, um, providing, uh,
humanitarian, uh, pathways for people who are displaced,
uh, by the war?
Look, nothing at this stage.
Um, what we are focused on right now in the first sort
of two or three days of this is who are the people
who are expiring here in New Zealand
in the next eight weeks.
And I know that number for the Iranians, uh,
we don't have it for other countries just yet
who have got closed airports focusing on making sure
that they have a pathway to remain here legally, uh,
because we don't want them to become illegal
or be in a, in a vulnerable position.
So that's our initial, uh, concern.
Uh, we haven't started to think about that yet.
It's very, very early days.
Would you consider, uh, either using your powers
to make an adjustment to the quota
or creating a special pathway?
I haven't considered that yet, honestly.
We are still in the very, very early stages,
so I can't answer that. Thank you. In
The interest of having how many people we've got questions
for, I'm just gonna move
On 'cause we've Got a short time.
Uh, so we now have a question from Vanessa.
Thanks so much. Uh, thank you, minister.
Um, just, uh, 20 25, 26, um, marks a time when many of those
who were, who were lower skilled workers who came in during
that, um, period of time
after opening the borders, they'll be coming up to the end
of their work visa time now.
Um, how important is it that those, um,
that those are maintained, those time limits are, um, held
and what would be the implications if, um, there was any,
um, sort of stretch or, um, non-adherence?
Look, there, there is, uh, the maximum continuous stay,
which has actually been, uh, policy that,
that was predated me becoming the minister.
That's the first time it's been, uh, enforced
because of COVID and other bits and pieces that came along.
The general thrust behind it was, uh, you know,
it's not fair and reasonable to have people here
for a very long period of time who become settled,
who might have children who do
not have a pathway to residence.
And so the clear, uh,
obligation is if you don't have a pathway to residence,
it's time to return home after three years.
Yeah. Interestingly, no, the figures are showing us
that many of these people are upskilling themselves.
Mm-hmm. They realize that if they want
to stay in New Zealand, they need to upskill.
So we are seeing many of them applying for other visas.
I'm keeping you really close on the figures.
They're applying for other visas
and other pathways, uh, so
that there are a portion of them who are leaving.
But there are quite a significant portion
who are upskilling themselves, uh, from
what I can see in the figures
and ma managing to stay in New Zealand.
Uh, and I'm looking, as I said earlier, I'm looking forward
to later in this year, offering those ex expanded pathways
to residents for those highly skilled people, uh,
that were left out, um, of the previous points regime,
those skilled tradies and technicians, for example,
and really skilled people that clear
that didn't have a pathway to residents before.
And I think some of these people who are here are looking at
that going, well, I need to upskill, uh, to,
to remain in New Zealand, uh, for the five years
and then look to whether or not
I have a pathway to residence. So right
Next primary from Phil.
Um, I wanted to ask a sort
of high level question, minister.
So if we look around the world right now, um, sadly, parties
of the left as well as the right are
stepping back from long held commitments to the, uh,
refugee convention
and, uh, winding back, uh, policies
and systems to support migration
and engaging in kind of open anti-migrant politics.
Um, one of your government's coalition partners is pretty
explicitly, you know, practices a kind
of anti-migrant politics right here in the parliament.
What's your, um, mission as, and,
and how do you see your role as the Minister of Immigration
to look after the system in a way
that insurers New Zealand gets the migrants we need
and that we maintain our commitments as a country
to treat people with dignity and respect?
Well, I think if you look at the past two years of the,
of the work that we've done, you can see that we are moving
to a re a system that, uh, is ensuring
that we're getting the talent and the skills that we need.
We've done that through the different visa pathways, uh,
making sure that, uh, we've got pathways to residents, uh,
ensuring that we're reducing the amount
of migrant exploitation by ensuring people
who come here have the skills that they need to do the job,
uh, and, uh, that they speak a very basic level
of English to help protect them.
Uh, uh,
and of course, uh, we want to make sure that we are, uh,
fulfilling our international obligations.
However, there is always, uh, you know, a,
it's always important to make sure it's working
for New Zealand, and there are cases where people
who do not abide by New Zealand law, um,
and you see that in, uh, in the upcoming, um, I bill
that I'm, um, proposing to make sure that
actually when you are in New Zealand,
you are abiding by our laws.
And if you do not, then uh, it is time for you
to depart New Zealand.
And we have to do that via a de uh, deportation notice.
And then we will, uh,
and so there, there is a balance,
how do we fulfill our international obligations?
But if you are here, and even if that may,
even if you are here as a, uh, refugee, you need
to make sure that you are abiding by New Zealand laws.
I think there is little tolerance for people
who are here in New Zealand who commit heinous crimes.
Uh, and so we have to balance our international obligations
and international law with protecting the interest
of New Zealand supplementary
Phil. Um,
yeah, I, I just equating people
who may be undocumented with people
who have committed heinous crimes, um, with respect,
I don't think is very helpful
to have us having a rational
public debate about these things.
Um, I wasn't doing that.
Well, that's what it says. Okay.
Well, that's what it sounded like to me. Not at all.
Um, uh, what do you say to people who, uh,
are alarmed by your suggestion
that immigration compliance officers should be,
have the legal power to request Id
given this country's history of ethnic profiling as in, in
immigration compliance
And our very recent modern history?
Sure. I, I, I would say if those people wait
until you see the bill, it's not been tabled yet, it's going
to come to this committee and you will get the chance to,
uh, hear submissions go through it,
tighten it up if you think it needs tightening up,
uh, or make suggestions.
Uh, but essentially this came from a place
of the compliance officers, uh, saying to me
and to Immigration New Zealand, when we are, uh,
undertaking the course of our duties, we are going in
to do our job somewhere, either pick someone up
or going into a business, uh, to do in our everyday work.
Uh, and people jump out the windows, flee out the door hide.
Uh, there is at this point in time,
a very gray area about what we can do about that.
And we do nothing. I think it's reasonable.
New Zealanders would expect that when you are in
that situation and you have a reasonable expectation
that someone is not abiding by the conditions of their visa,
uh, by doing those types of things, um,
that you would reasonably be able to say to them, Hey,
can I see your documentation?
Because it's probably likely that, uh, you are not abiding
by the terms and conditions of your visa.
Uh, and so it's a gap
that's been a gray area that we are fixing.
This is not about immigration.
New Zealand racially profi profiling, uh,
randomly walking along the street
and asking people for identification.
Um, I think this has been a little bit, uh, blown out
of proportion because people haven't been able
to see the bill yet, and I accept that.
But I think once they do, and once you've had a chance to,
to hear submissions, um, it is about a very narrow, uh,
ability when they're already doing their job to make sure
that they have the powers they need when there is a
reasonable expectation that people are not abiding
by the conditions of their visa. Can
I just also note that we've got a number of questions.
This is about 24 25 financial year.
We've got a chance to hear from
the minister about the bill upcoming.
So can I move on to a supplementary question from
Carl? Um, and then we'll go from there.
Um, thanks Chair.
Just picking up on something that, uh,
Paul Rafford referred to.
What have been the effects of the government's, uh, changes
to the A WV, um,
being on the migrant exploitation protection visa?
I think that the changes we made, uh,
actually had a bigger impact than even I hoped they would.
When we, we came in, uh, there was a situation where,
look, COVID had ended.
We needed workers in the country and we needed them quickly.
And there was a lot of pressure on the minister at the time
and Immigration New Zealand, uh,
to facilitate movement into the country.
And unfortunately, that led to, uh, people to turning up
who didn't have the requisite skills or knowledge or,
or qualifications to do the thing they were here to do.
And clearly they were here to be exploited
and they were paying huge premiums.
Uh, so a very simple change around, uh, making sure
that people had at least two years worth of skill of the job
that they were coming in to do
and spoke a, a what is a, quite a, a low level,
but a basic level of English
that they could understand their rights and obligations
and health and safety, um, to be able
to protect themselves has actually made a huge difference.
We've seen a massive drop off in the, um,
American exploitation visa from what we had seen.
Um, it's not to say that migrant exploitation isn't
happening, it absolutely is.
And we are with a lot of things we've got underway,
it's a big focus of compliance to make sure
that we are cracking down on that.
And, um, and we're seeing some of the impacts of that.
But, uh, it had a, a, a really, really big impact.
Um, on, on on that,
and what it's also done is make sure that, you know,
we had a, what was a roundabout,
don't remember the exact phase,
but approximately sort of 60 40 high skilled to low skilled,
70 30 round, that it's completely flipped.
We're 85% high skilled people that we need in this country.
And I think that was a, that flipped was a, a
because of the fact that we were, uh,
essentially facilitating
to too many people in the country without
properly verifying their credentials.
Correct. So we're back to where we, where we should be.
I, I believe so. We have a
Supplementary from Ricardo just checking that it is on,
It's on the period. Yeah.
Great. So on the period we're reviewing,
there was work undertaken to have you estimate on the number
of overstayers minister.
What do you make of the fact that Americans are the third
largest overstaying group in the countries?
I think that most Kiwis would be surprised by,
Uh, and I'll ask, um, for my officials on this,
but it's important not to just look at raw numbers.
I think it's important, more important
to look at the percentage.
So when you put that to one side
and look at the amount of people coming compared
to their overstay rate, it changes completely.
Uh, and those are the figures you should look at.
Um, so I just, I just caution you
to look at those figures rather than,
than the actual numbers.
It, it tells a very, very different story.
And have you highlighted some of that, for example,
with the community, I know
that the Trump administration has signaled concerns over
immigration policies
and the engagement that officials may have had.
Do you know if this has been raised back with them? Sorry,
Say that again? The
Trump administration has shared concerns over our
immigration policies, um, and communication to us.
Um, I understand there has been some engagement with, um,
through officials on this.
Has the American overlayer numbers been highlighted back
to the American administration?
Okay. Considering they raised concerns off other
ethnicities or other cultural,
I can't answer that.
'cause I, I, I dunno, I,
it's not nothing I've been involved in overnight,
but I just say that when you look at the percentage
of overstay compared to the numbers coming in, um,
America doesn't even feature, it's not even in the top 10.
I know it's, sorry, it drops down. I apologize.
It drops down to number seven.
Uh, so still, so actually, yeah. But, but it's tiny.
The percentage is 0.14% of people who come in overstay.
Um, it, it is a very, very small percentage. Isn't
That the case for most groups though,
that it's a small percentage of people
who overstay who come into the country? There are
Some that are higher
than others and, and what's the highest?
I'm happy to, I'm happy to give you these figures.
I'll be able to, we'll follow up them to you.
Thank you. I give them across.
Um, so look, we have, uh,
next primary question from, and then we'll, yes, thank you.
Thank, thank you to you minister for responding
to my letter about the parent resident visa,
the BARR system, which creates randomness.
So I've seen you in person first time since
I received the response this morning.
So thank you. So my question is about the revenue forecast.
So this morning we were told that the revenue forecast,
which has been made for 2026 cannot be, um, met.
So I want to know from you, are you doing anything
to close the gap or is there something that needs
to change in the way the forecast is done?
Uh, look, and I think officials will
probably run you through this.
This is the very first time
that we have ever had an immigration system that is
predominantly funded by, uh, the people
who see the benefits, which are the migrants themselves.
That's about 91%.
Uh, and so it was the first time we'd had to sit down
and do a, a, a forecast and create a model.
Uh, and there are a few things in there
that I think we will change in the future.
We've got a fee and levy review, uh,
every three years that'll come up again next year.
So we'll look at that. I think a part
of it also was the fact that the A EWV visa numbers weren't,
uh, we just got the forecast wrong.
Um, and so that is ticking up again though, um,
and we expect that, uh, that over time
that will help us correct things.
So we'll, we'll see how that goes,
but I know that Immigration New Zealand are working on those
forecasts, working on the numbers,
and we will have a fee and levy review.
And we've also, um, broadened our, uh, our base of,
uh, levy pays as well.
Okay. Um, not we've done anything about it yet,
but we've got the power to Great new primary from Grant.
Yeah. Um, thank you. Um, minister there,
we had quite discussion this morning about the active
investment, um, visa plus Visa,
and it's been, you, you've made some adjustments to that.
It's been certainly had quite an impact.
What do you put that down to
and what, what impact do you think benefits that'll bring
to our, uh, economy and business visa?
I think that the key thing was,
was working with the sector.
They helped to give us the information that we needed,
immigration, that they needed to create something
that responded to, uh, what worked for, uh, investors.
Uh, and so it has been massively popular.
And I, I wanna take all the credit
because actually there is a very unsettled world at the
moment, and a lot of, um,
the numbers I think have been driven by
what's happening globally.
Uh, and so it is a, we've got a window of opportunity teamed
with a policy policy setting that is,
has been really well worked through, um,
by officials and also the sector.
Uh, it is going to,
it is already having huge benefits for New Zealand.
We've seen a billion dollars already committed.
We've got a $2 billion coming down the pipeline that's due
to be invested over the next six months.
Um, we are in constant conversation with the, um, some
of the funds, uh,
and the businesses who are being invested in.
Uh, and what's really exciting is hearing from them,
the first thing that they think about
doing is hiring more people.
Mm-hmm. So we are creating more highly skilled jobs
that are here in New Zealand for our kids, uh,
and New Zealanders to move into.
And that's the really exciting part.
And then they talk about expanding offshore,
um, new technologies.
I was at Hector just recently.
They are looking at a really
exciting new piece of technology.
Even they admit is like gonna be, uh, difficult
but massively world-leading.
What they already do is world-leading.
And now this next part, even more
so, so they're hiring more people.
Uh, they've already got established markets
they'll be able to tap into.
And it's that type of thing that's exciting that, you know,
helping to grow our economy and create higher paying jobs.
Uh, and I think that we will see, uh,
more demand for it this year.
Right. And next primary question from Ricardo,
This is just to tie in a couple
of comments from the previous hearing with officials
and just wanted to get the minister's view on that.
Um, we were told that there was no systemic issue
with deportation liabilities, not basically,
but there was no systemic issue
with physical addresses not being it found, um,
for the purposes of issuing a deportation liability.
Um, yet the bill
that you've are introducing would allow the broadening of
that to basically, um, uh, for those
to be issued electronically.
Yeah. What's the systemic problem you're trying to address?
We're just moving into the, like the century essentially.
I mean, that's, that's how businesses operate, uh,
and that's how people operate electronically, uh, and
or make our lives easier. We
Okay. Thank you.
We were also told,
we're not giving information on
how many visas have been granted an error.
What's the systemic issue you see
around visas being granted an error?
Do you think this is a significant problem
that needs addressing?
And if so, do you have any information
or evidential basis to back it up?
Oh, I'll let, I mean, I'll let officials talk to that,
but a lot of what, well a lot of what we, uh,
do when we are doing these bills is, uh, things
that are tidy up as well.
So while you might see it as a, not a huge issue,
it is good for the health of the system.
So we often, I mean, in previous lab labor, government
and a lumber of tidy up themselves and the Immigration Act,
and you might say, well, those aren't the big issues,
but actually when we've got a bill going through, um,
it's a very useful tool to be able to throw in some things
that have been, uh, on the books
for a long time that need tidying up.
And so that's one of those things.
But I mean, I, I let officials, um,
and we can come back to you on,
on the information you asked for about numbers. Great.
Uh, Phil, next primary, um, actually I want to go back
to the active investor plus visa.
Um, so there was a lot of talk about $3 billion,
uh, being invested.
Um, what we heard this morning is that in fact,
$800 million has been invested in the active, um,
uh, part of the program, the active component,
only $20 million of
that in direct investment in New Zealand businesses.
But after three years, uh,
after the three year period, uh,
when the applicant gets their resident visa, there's no way
to require, uh,
or compel into continue investing in New Zealand businesses.
Mm-hmm. Um, are you worried that you've oversold this?
And, um, if not, what are you doing to try to ensure
that the economic development benefits for New Zealand
continue past the three year period?
And where we know there's quite an international literature
of these kinds of visas where people,
once they get their visa, the money gets pulled out and
and goes somewhere else and they've effectively bought
themselves a retirement.
There is, there's quite a bit to unpack there.
If you go back to the old investor one
and two, um, you know, I, I would say that at that point,
and, uh, I think it was a good thing the previous labor
government tidied some of that up around, uh, the recycling
of money and making sure that investments had to,
didn't have to be managerially repatriated back
to their country of origin.
So that was a really good tidy up
and that's helped to fix a few things
that we've kept that in place.
Uh, so that was a big problem around recycling
and people putting money in,
taking it out, getting their visa.
That's been tidy up by you.
We've kept that and I think that was a really good tidy up.
One of the things that we don't have very good data on,
we've got some, we've got some data,
but it's not great under any visa scheme.
We've never really tracked what happens
after the initial investment.
And I've often said that the biggest prize is not the
5 million, it's not the 10 million.
It's what they do. After we've got
that there is some information available, uh,
and it's the best that we have that shows
that there is a significant amount of investment after.
Now, does every single person invest significantly
after Absolutely not.
There will be a portion of people,
and it's very difficult to create a system that stops that,
where people will invest their, their first lot
and then either, uh, not invest anymore, might stay here,
but not invest or might not come.
And that's, uh, a trade off we're willing to make
because the vast majority we expect, uh,
and we've seen from the early that earlier data, um,
that when they are here and they're living here
and they get excited by the, uh, the,
the different businesses
and ability to be part of the ecosystem here,
they do invest more.
And also they're really big philanthropists.
So one of the things we've set up in this visa
is to track that.
So in the future, we can make better decisions about the
visa because we have that data.
We've never had that before.
It's never been part of the scheme.
The other thing that I'll note is that one
of the important changes we made was
to have your money invested for a longer period
of time under the previous scheme announced by,
by your previous government.
Uh, you only had to actually have your money fully invested
for one year before you took it out.
Our clock starts ticking on day one for three years.
So we've tripled the time
that the money must be invested in this country
to get a much better return.
Again, as I always say,
we're not a set and forget government.
We are constantly looking at how to improve this.
We are constantly keeping an eye on the figures about where,
where things are being invested
and what tweaks we can make in the future.
We put in a 18 month review, we've pulled that down
to one year so we can make changes as we see fit.
Uh, but also the other thing I would, I'd finish
by saying is what we are seeing is it evolve.
So when we, when we first set it up,
the first few months we saw money going into certain areas,
we are now seeing an evolution.
And that's why I am very nervous about meddling early on
until we see it mature as it matures.
We are seeing more money now going into, uh,
VC and private equity.
Uh, and so I just wanna see how
that goes over the next six months.
If we need to make some adjustments, we absolutely will,
but at this point, it's a little bit early
to start meddling when we can see it's still maturing.
Great. Uh, do we have any further questions?
I do, right, Phil, go for it.
Uh, are you satisfied that, um, the number
of prosecutions, uh, 16 in, um, uh,
last year for migrant worker exploitation
and $372,000 in, uh, infringement penalties,
is that at an adequate compliance response to the scale
of the exploitation problem?
The, the, the scale
of the exploitation problem is the first thing.
Like, it's difficult to know.
We know that it is not
what it was when we became the government.
And you remember the stories in the media about the 30
Indian men, you know, in South Auckland
to a three bedroom home.
It was, it was awful. And they were
being trafficked here essentially.
Um, so that, that problem is not what it was.
It still exists. Absolutely.
Um, it is a focus of immigration New Zealand,
and they are, uh, upping the number of people.
I know that Allison's moved people across
to compliance from other teams
because it is a big focus of ours.
I am giving, uh, as you can see,
we've got some legislation coming to toughen up, uh,
and we are giving compliance more the powers that they need.
So, so there's a number of things happening on the
legislation and policy front operationally.
It is a, a big, uh, focus for us.
Can we do more? I would like to do more.
Was 16 prosecutions enough?
Uh, well the problem with it is, as you know,
it takes a really long time for us to gear up
to getting into a prosecution.
And I know that Alison can probably speak more to that,
but it is not just, oh,
we're gonna prosecute you and it's done the next month.
It takes a really long time to get there.
And so we're still building up. And
If you've got any more comments on that,
we have mentioned earlier, we've got a whole range
of things we're doing right from when people are offshore
and advertising right through to compliance.
And the number of investigations going
before the courts is going up substantially in the next year
because we've learned more through a WB taking more action.
I think it's fair we give you the last word, Alison.
I think we've reached the end of our time.
So thank you very much for making yourselves available.
Uh, do appreciate it as always,
and uh, we'll carry on with our agenda and let you all go.
Thanks, Ernest.